==========================
FeinCMS 1.12 release notes
==========================

Welcome to FeinCMS 1.12!

.. warning::

   This is a cleanup release. Lots of changes ahead! Please report problems
   in our issue tracker on Github_!

.. _Github: https://github.com/feincms/feincms/issues


Template content requires explicit list of templates
====================================================

The template refactor in Django removed the ability to enumerate
templates in template folders. Because of that templates must now
be explicitly specified when creating the content type::

    Page.create_content_type(TemplateContent, TEMPLATES=[
        ('content/template/something1.html', 'something'),
        ('content/template/something2.html', 'something else'),
        ('base.html', 'makes no sense'),
    ])

Also, you need to add a model migration which renames the old
``filename`` field to the new ``template`` field and prepends
``content/template/`` to all filenames::

    # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
    from __future__ import unicode_literals

    from django.db import models, migrations


    class Migration(migrations.Migration):

        dependencies = [
            ('page', 'WHATEVER IS APPROPRIATE'),
        ]

        operations = [
            migrations.RenameField('TemplateContent', 'filename', 'template'),
            migrations.RunSQL(
                "UPDATE page_page_templatecontent"
                " SET template='content/template/' || template;",
                "UPDATE page_page_templatecontent"
                " SET template=REPLACE(template, 'content/template/', '');"
            ),
        ]


The blog module has been completely removed
============================================

If you need a blog, have a look at Elephantblog_ instead.

.. _Elephantblog: https://github.com/feincms/feincms-elephantblog


Caching of pages in various page manager methods has been removed
=================================================================

Some methods such as `Page.objects.for_request` automatically cached
the page instances. This behavior lead to non-obvious problems and has
therefore been removed.


Backwards-incompatible changes
==============================

* FeinCMS requires Django 1.7 or better.

* Django has removed comments support a long time ago, which meant
  that our bundled comments content in ``feincms.content.comments``
  was broken for some time. It has been completely removed.

* ``feincms.content.rss`` has been removed, use ``feincms-syndication``
  instead.


Removal of deprecated features
------------------------------

South is not supported anymore? Django 1.7 and better only?

``feincms.views.cbv`` has been removed. Use ``feincms.urls`` and
``feincms.views`` directly instead.


New deprecations
================

* None.


Notable features and improvements
=================================

* Rich text cleaning using Tidy has been removed.

* ``FEINCMS_JQUERY_NO_CONFLICT`` is gone. Either use ``django.jQuery`` or
  ``feincms.jQuery`` explicitly.

* Some support has been added for ``django-filer``.

Bugfixes
========

* Too many to list.


Compatibility with Django and other apps
========================================

FeinCMS 1.12 requires Django 1.7 or better.
