=========================
FeinCMS 1.2 release notes
=========================


Welcome to the first release notes for FeinCMS!


Overview
========

FeinCMS 1.2 sports several large changes, including:

* Overhauled item editor. The new item editor uses standard Django administration
  fieldsets; you can use almost all standard Django configuration mechanisms.
  ``show_on_top`` has been deprecated, standard ``fieldsets`` should be used
  instead.

* The split pane editor has been removed. It wasn't much more than a proof of
  concept and was never bug-free.

* The required Django version is now 1.2. Compatibility with older Django versions
  has been removed.

* The rich text configuration has slightly changed; ``CkRichTextContent`` has
  been completely removed in favor of a rich text editor agnostic configuration
  method. ``TINYMCE_JS_URL`` should be replaced by an appropriate
  ``FEINCMS_RICHTEXT_INIT_CONTEXT`` settings value. See the
  :ref:`contenttypes` documentation for more details.

* A new content type, ``TemplateContent`` has been added which can be used to
  render templates residing on the hard disk.

* The ``TreeEditor`` JavaScript code has been rewritten, reintroducing
  drag-drop for reordering pages, but this time in a well-performing way not
  sluggish as before.

* ``feincms.models.Base`` is still available, ``feincms.models.create_base_model``
  is the more flexible way of creating the aforementioned base model. If
  ``create_base_model`` is used the base model can be freely defined.

* Many small improvements and bugfixes all over the place.
