====================================
FeinCMS 1.7 release notes (upcoming)
====================================

Welcome to FeinCMS 1.7!


Extensions-mechanism refactor
=============================

The extensions mechanism has been refactored to remove the need to make models
know about their related model admin classes. The new module
:py:mod:`feincms.extensions` contains mixins and base classes - their purpose
is as follows:

**TODO move this somewhere else, this isn't release notes material**

.. class:: feincms.extensions.ExtensionsMixin

    This mixin provides the ``register_extensions`` method which is the place
    where extensions are registered for a certain model. Extensions can be
    specified in the following ways:

    - Subclasses of :py:class:`~feincms.extensions.Extension`
    - Dotted Python module paths pointing to a subclass of the aforementioned
      extension class
    - Dotted Python module paths pointing to a module containing either a class
      named ``Extension`` or a function named ``register`` (for legacy
      extensions)


.. class:: feincms.extensions.Extension

    This is the base class for your own extension. It has the following methods
    and properties:

    .. attribute:: model

        The model class.

    .. method:: handle_model(self)

        The method which modifies the Django model class. The model class is
        available as ``self.model``.

    .. method:: handle_modeladmin(self, modeladmin)

        This method receives the model admin instance bound to the model. This
        method could be called more than once, especially when using more than
        one admin site.


.. class:: feincms.extensions.ExtensionModelAdmin()

    This is a model admin subclass which knows about extensions, and lets the
    extensions do their work modifying the model admin instance after it has
    been successfully initialized. It has the following methods and properties:

    .. method:: initialize_extensions(self)

        This method is automatically called at the end of initialization and
        loops through all registered extensions and calls their
        ``handle_modeladmin`` method.

    .. method:: add_extension_options(self, \*f)

        This is a helper to add fields and fieldsets to a model admin instance.
        Usage is as follows::

            modeladmin.add_extension_options('field1', 'field2')

        Or::

            modeladmin.add_extension_options(_('Fieldset title'), {
                'fields': ('field1', 'field2'),
                })


View code refactor
==================

Made views, content type and request / response processors reusable.

The legacy views at :py:mod:`feincms.views.legacy` were considered unhelpful
and were removed.


Backwards-incompatible changes
==============================


Page manager methods behavior
-----------------------------

Previously, the following page manager methods sometimes returned inactive
objects or did not raise the appropriate (and asked for)
:py:class:`~django.http.Http404` exception:

- ``Page.objects.page_for_path``
- ``Page.objects.best_match_for_path``
- ``Page.objects.for_request``

The reason for that was that only the page itself was tested for activity
in the manager method, and none of its ancestors. The check whether all
ancestors are active was only conducted later in a request processor. This
request processor was registered by default and was always run when
``Page.objects.for_request`` was called with ``setup=True``.

However, request processors do not belong into the model layer. The necessity
of running code belonging to a request-response cycle to get the correct answer
from a manager method was undesirable. This has been rectified, those manager
methods check the ancestry directly. The now redundant request processor
``require_path_active_request_processor`` has been removed.


Reversing application content URLs
----------------------------------

The support for monkey-patching applicationcontent-awareness into Django's
:py:func:`django.core.urlresolvers.reverse` has been removed.


Removal of deprecated features
------------------------------

* The old media library content type module
  :py:mod:`feincms.content.medialibrary.models` has been replaced with the
  contents of :py:mod:`feincms.content.medialibrary.v2`. The model field
  ``position`` has been renamed to ``type``, instead of ``POSITION_CHOICES``
  you should use ``TYPE_CHOICES`` now. The code has been simplified and
  hacks to imitate ``raw_id_fields`` have been replaced by working stock
  code. The ``v2`` module will stay around for another release and will be
  removed in FeinCMS v1.8. The now-unused template
  ``admin/content/mediafile/init.html`` has been deleted.


New deprecations
----------------

* ``Page.setup_request()`` does not do anything anymore and will be removed
  in FeinCMS v1.8.


Notable features and improvements
=================================

* A lazy version of :py:func:`~feincms.content.application.models.app_reverse`
  is now available,
  :py:func:`~feincms.content.application.models.app_reverse_lazy`.

* Because of the extensions refactor mentioned above, all
  ``register_extension`` methods have been removed. Additionally, the model
  admin classes are not imported inside the ``models.py`` files anymore.

* The setting ``FEINCMS_USE_PAGE_ADMIN`` can be set to false to prevent
  registration of the page model with the administration. This is especially
  useful if you only want to reuse parts of the page module.

* Various classes in :py:mod:`feincms.module.page` do not hardcode the page
  class anymore; hooks are provided to use your own models instead. Please
  refer to the source for additional information.

* ``Page.redirect_to`` can also contain the primary key of a page now, which
  means that the redirect target stays correct even if the page URL changes.

* Before, page content was copied automatically when creating a translation
  of an existing page. This behavior can be deactivated by unchecking a
  checkbox now.

* Work has begun to make the page forms, model admin classes and managers
  work with an abstract page model so that it will be easier to work with
  several page models in a single Django site.


Bugfixes
========

* It should be possible to store FeinCMS models in a secondary database, as
  long as the base model and all content types are stored in the same
  database.

* Changing templates in the item editor where the templates do not share
  common regions does not result in orphaned content blocks anymore.

* :py:func:`feincms.utils.get_object` knows how to import modules, not only
  objects inside modules now.

* The order and priority values for pages have been fixed when generating
  sitemaps.

* Various ``save`` and ``delete`` methods now come with ``alters_data=True``
  to prevent their use in templates.

* Only one translation is permitted per language when using
  :py:mod:`feincms.translations`.

* FeinCMS can now be used without :py:mod:`django.contrib.sites`.

* If the fieldset of a content inline has been customized, the fieldset is
  not processed again to make sure that all form fields are actually shown.
  If you use dynamically generated fields in a content inline such as the
  application content does, you must not customize the fieldsets attribute
  of the ``FeinCMSInline``.


Compatibility with Django and other apps
========================================

FeinCMS 1.7 requires Django 1.4.
