=========================
FeinCMS 1.9 release notes
=========================

Welcome to FeinCMS 1.9!


Extensions in the item editor
=============================

Extension fieldsets are now presented using a tabbed interface in the item
editor as well to raise their visibility.


A better way to mark pages as active in the navigation
======================================================

The new template tag ``{% page_is_active %}`` knows how to handle regular
pages and also page pretenders from navigation extensions.

The following template snippet shows the recommended method of marking
pages as active::

    {% feincms_nav feincms_page level=1 as toplevel %}
    <ul>
    {% for page in toplevel %}
        {% page_is_active page as is_active %}
        <li {% if is_active %}class="active"{% endif %}>
            <a href="{{ page.get_navigation_url }}">{{ page.title }}</a>
        <li>
    {% endfor %}
    </ul>


Backwards-incompatible changes
==============================


Removal of deprecated features
------------------------------

* The table content type has been removed. It has open bugs for more than two
  years which weren't fixed, and now that we've moved on to newer versions of
  jQuery, the table content didn't even load.

* All extensions should inherit from ``feincms.extensions.Extension``.
  The support for ``register(cls, admin_cls)``-style functions has been
  removed.

* Unknown page model fields (for example those added through page extensions)
  aren't added to the administration interface anymore. Use
  ``modeladmin.add_extension_options`` if you want extension fields to
  appear.

* The ``_feincms_extensions`` property on the page model (and on all models
  inheriting ``ExtensionsMixin`` has been removed. It has been deprecated
  since FeinCMS v1.7.


New deprecations
================



Notable features and improvements
=================================

* The bundled versions of jQuery and jQuery UI have been updated to 1.9.1
  and 1.10.3 respectively. Custom confirmation boxes have been removed
  and standard ones are used instead now.

* The diff between 1.8 and 1.9 is large -- most of it because of coding style
  cleanups. `flake8 <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8>`_ runs should not
  show any warnings.

* Extension classes can be passed directly to ``register_extensions()`` now.


Bugfixes
========


Compatibility with Django and other apps
========================================

FeinCMS 1.8 requires Django 1.4 or better. The testsuite is successfully run
against Django 1.4, 1.5, 1.6 and the upcoming 1.7.
